Ackquille Jean Pollard (born August 4, 1994), known by his stage name Bobby Shmurda, is an American rapper from Brooklyn, signed to Epic Records. He is best known for his song "Hot Nigga", (released in July 2014) a song that debuted the "Shmoney dance," which went viral after the release of the music video. The song has so far peaked at 6 on the Billboard Hot 100, with the song being remixed and performed by numerous other artists including Lil' Kim, French Montana, Juicy J, and Gunplay. On December 17, 2014, New York City Police arrested him, alleging that he was the ringleader of a Crips gang known as GS9, the same as his label, which shot indiscriminately into public crowds and murdered a member of a rival gang. Pollard was charged with for conspiracy to commit murder, weapons possession, and reckless endangerment as part of a 15-person, 69-count indictment that included his brother Javese and fellow GS9 label-mate Rowdy Rebel. Shmurda pled not guilty.


Shmurda was born in Florida and is the youngest of two sons born to a Jamaican father and Trinidadian mother. He moved to Florida shortly after birth and relocated from Florida to Brooklyn, New York after his father was incarcerated, living in East Flatbush. Shmurda also had run ins with the law while living in Brooklyn, including spending 15 months in detention for probation violation as well as being arrested on a gun charge that was later dropped.
Shmurda began rapping at the age of 10. The first song he remixed was Crime Mob's "Knuck If You Buck" in 2004, but did not receive any notable attention until 2014 with the release of the song "Hot Nigga". The song features the beat from the Lloyd Banks' song "Jackpot". Shmurda gained notoriety from the video where he performs the "Shmoney dance", choreography that he made in the summer of 2013. The song became popular among Vine users and soon led to the "Shmoney dance" meme, which has since been performed by Beyoncé on her On the Run Tour with Jay-Z, as well being used by Drake while hosting the 2014 ESPY Awards. Freestyles of the song by various rappers have since been released, including by Juicy J, French Montana, Lil' Kim, Gunplay and T.I.. The song peaked at No. 21 on the Billboard Rap Digital chart with a remix of the song featuring Chris Brown, Jadakiss and Busta Rhymes having been released in 2014. In July 2014, Shmurda performed with Meek Mill and later signed a recording deal with Epic Records. On August 29, 2014, Shmurda released a reggae remix featuring Junior Reid, Mavado, Popcaan and Jah X. On September 5, 2014, another remix of "Hot Nigga" notably featuring Chris Brown, Fabolous, Jadakiss and Busta Rhymes was released. Shmurda's debut album with Epic Records is scheduled for release in 2015. The album is said to be produced by Jahlil Beats.
On June 3, 2014, Pollard was arrested and charged with felony criminal possession of a weapon. Cops claim they saw him flashing the gun in an apartment and when they went to investigate, he tried to hide it in a couch. He was set free on $10,000 bail. On December 17, 2014, police arrested Pollard and 14 others, including his brother Javese and his fellow GS9 musician Rowdy Rebel. Police charged Shmurda with conspiracy to commit murder, reckless endangerment, and gun possession; charges against the others included murder, attempted murder, assault, and drug dealing. Shmurda pled not guilty and was held on $2 million bail. Police said they had been investigating the gang for murder and shooting indiscriminately at crowds in public places long before Shmurda rose to fame. Police said Shmurda was "the driving force" in a gang also known as GS9, the name of his label, as they dealt crack and waged deadly battle with rival gangs for territory. He faces a maximum sentence of 8-25 years. James Essig, head of the NYPD unit that made the arrests, said Shmurda's songs and videos were "almost like a real-life document of what they were doing on the street."  In his song Hot Nigga, Shmurda rapped that "I been selling crack since like the fifth grade" because "Jaja taught me"; Shmurda also rapped about his crew's past and future murders. Shmurda has asserted that the lyrics represent his real life in several interviews, though The Supreme Court of New Jersey recently ruled that lyrics cannot be read at trial as evidence unless they have a "strong nexus" to a specific crime.
