Calvin Harris (born 17 January 1984) is a Scottish singer, songwriter and record producer. He was born and grew up in Dumfries, Scotland. Harris was paid more than any other DJ in 2013.


Calvin Harris signed record contracts with EMI (publishing) and Sony BMG (recording) in 2006, after his music was found on the social networking website, MySpace.
His first album I Created Disco was released on 18 June 2007. The album contained uptempo electronic sounding songs that were influenced by music from the 1980s. To promote I Created Disco, Harris left to go on a tour of the UK, supporting Faithless and Groove Armada.
The first single release from the album, 'I created Disco' was called "Vegas". It was released on limited edition vinyl. His second single from his album was called "Acceptable in the 80s", a tribute to the style and culture of the decade. The song reached the top ten on the UK singles chart, remaining on the chart for fifteen weeks. "The Girls" was the album's second charted single. Harris' second single reached number three in the UK Singles Chart. The fourth release from the album was "Merrymaking at My Place", however it only reached #43 in the UK chart.
On 23 January 2009 Pete Tong played "I'm Not Alone" on BBC Radio 1.
Ready for the Weekend, Harris' second album, was released 14 August 2009. It went straight to number one in the UK Albums Chart.
In 2012 Harris released his third album 18 Months. Eight singles were released from it. The first single released from the album was "Bounce".
In 2013 Harris' album 18 Months was nominated for Best Dance/Electronica Album at the 2014 Grammy Awards.
In 2007, Harris also recorded with Kylie Minogue. He had caught Minogue's attention after his recordings had been passed on to her by another record producer. Harris says that working with Kylie was "surreal, but fun" although revealed to mixmag in 2007 to "needing a few drinks before meeting her." It has been confirmed that Harris has co-written and produced two songs on the forthcoming Kylie album, 'In My Arms' and 'Heart Beat Rock'.
He is currently working with British pop singer Sophie Ellis-Bextor, co-writing a new single for her forthcoming greatest hits album.
Harris began dating British singer Rita Ora in 2013. The two ended their relationship in June 2014.
