Cédric Gervais (born Cedric DePasquale on 7 June 1979 in Marseille) is a Grammy Award-winning French DJ and producer of house music currently living in Miami Beach, Florida.


Gervais was the biggest resident DJ at Paris' Le Queen Club. In 1998, he moved to South Beach in Miami Beach. He was 15 years old when he left for Miami, and gained residencies at Crobar (now Cameo) and Nikki Beach, before taking over as DJ at the Club Space Terrace. His first single, "Burning", was released with Ultra Records through their sublabel You. In 2006, his debut album The Experiment, featured the single "Spirit in My Life", also on Ultra Records. His production credits include working with Lenny Kravitz, Deep Dish, Steve Lawler, and Rachel Star.
His single "Mauri’s Dream", from 2009, was Pete Tong’s Essential Tune of the Week three weeks in a row. In 2011, Gervais released his second album, titled Miamication.
Gervais also has had two record labels of his own, Sleaze (for digital releases) and Sleaze Industries (for physical releases). He operated the labels during the 2000s releasing progressive and tribal house music.
In April 2012 Gervais released the single ‘Molly’, which was accompanied by a very racy music video. The single was another Pete Tong Essential Tune of the Week and was the highest new dance entry in the official UK charts reaching no.26, whilst the video racked up over 2.5 million views on YouTube. ‘Molly’ reached no.1 in the Buzz and Cool Cuts charts, and was day time play listed on Radio One and Sirius. The track also caused controversy between Madonna and Deadmau5, when Madonna made comments about the track while on stage at Ultra music festival in Miami.
In 2013 he produced a number of remixes: Lana Del Rey's "Summertime Sadness", Willy Moon's "Yeah Yeah", Katy Perry's "Wide Awake" and Borgore's "Decisions".
The "Summertime Sadness" remix reached No.1 on Beatport and remained there for 2 weeks in February. The track was the No.1 added track to US radio with 35 adds throughout summer 2013. The remix was then added to BBC Radio One’s A-List, reaching No.4 in the Official UK Charts, making it his most successful single to date. The track reached number 6 on the American Billboard chart, UK iTunes Chart to No.2 & US iTunes Chart to No.17. The remix was reviewed in MTV, and the The Daily Star. The track also achieved double platinum status in America. He won a Grammy Award for Best Remixed Recording, Non Classical for the song.
Michael Bay's 2013 film Pain & Gain featured two of Gervais' tracks, including his hit 'Molly'. In November 2013, Gervais launched his weekly 'Miamication' Radio Show, which is to be broadcast every Saturday night on SiriusXM. His most recent single, a remix of Miley Cyrus' "Adore You" was released in May 2014 on Spinnin Records. There was also a free give away of the track 'Hashtag' as a thank you to his fans on Facebook.
In February 2014, Gervais partnered with EDM lifestyle brand Electric Family to produce a collaboration bracelet for which 100% of the proceeds are donated to Miami Children's Health.
In October 2014, Gervais signed to Interscope Records with its related label Polydor Records, in the following month Interscope released his new single "Love Again" on 14 October.
