Clean Bandit are a British electronic group founded in Cambridge, England in 2009. The group consists of Jack Patterson, Luke Patterson, Grace Chatto, and Milan Neil Amin-Smith.
Their 2010 single "Mozart's House", released on Black Butter Records, reached number 17 on the UK Singles Chart. In January 2014, they scored their first UK Singles Chart-topping single with "Rather Be", a collaboration with Jess Glynne, featuring elements of classical music along with a dance music beat. "Rather Be" remained at the top of the chart for four weeks. In 2014, they achieved their first US Top 10 single with "Rather Be" peaking at number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100.
In 2015, "Rather Be" won the Grammy Award in 2015 for Best Dance Recording.


Clean Bandit's music has been described as "fusion" music, mixing electronic music with classical and deep-house elements. Most of their music intertwines classical compositions, such as those from Beethoven, Dvorak, etc. (most notably, Mozart for their song "Mozart's House"). Some of their music also involves tongue in cheek humour.
Clean Bandit produces their own music and invites guest artists to appear on their songs. Initially, many record labels refused to sign them up as they thought they were a "joke band."

Chatto stated that the music videos that accompany the songs are integral to the works as a whole; the videos would be conceived during the process of writing the music. The videos are made independently and often have references to culture in them (e.g. the ice skating man in the video to "Dust Clears" is a reference to the painting by Henry Raeburn of The Skating Minister). Chatto and Patterson formed their own film production company, Cleanfilm, to make music videos for themselves and other artists, and corporate videos.
Band members Jack Patterson, Grace Chatto, and Milan Neil Amin-Smith met while studying as undergraduates at Jesus College, University of Cambridge. At the time, Amin-Smith was leading a string quartet together with Chatto, who both attended Westminster School. Chatto was Patterson's girlfriend at the time and Patterson would record Chatto's performances. He started re-mixing these recordings with drum beats and other electronic music he created and let Chatto listen to these recordings which she liked. One of their friends, Ssegawa-Ssekintu Kiwanuka, then wrote lyrics for the piece and the song "Mozart's House" materialized. Eventually, the idea of forming a band came.
The band's name, Clean Bandit, comes from a translation of a Russian phrase (Chatto and Patterson lived in Russia for a period); the meaning is similar to the English phrase "complete bastard". Patterson later in May 2014 said that it is actually a rather affectionate term similar to the English "utter rascal".
In December 2012, the group released their debut single "A+E", which peaked at number 100 on the UK Singles Chart. It was the lead single from their debut album New Eyes, released on 2 June 2014 on Atlantic Records UK. On 29 February 2012, they released the video online for their single "UK Shanty", featuring Cambridge contemporary and supermodel Lily Cole. On 29 March 2013, they released the album's second single "Mozart's House". The song peaked at number seventeen on the UK Singles Chart, making it their first top twenty single on the chart. The album's third single "Dust Clears" charted at number forty three on the chart. The album's fourth single "Rather Be" featuring Jess Glynne was released on 19 January 2014 and topped the UK Singles Chart, their first number one on the chart.
On 14 April 2014, the band made their TV debut on the BBC's Later... with Jools Holland. In May 2014, they also announced a 14 date headline tour of the UK. In September 2014 they performed with the BBC Philharmonic Orchestra at MediaCityUK. The band collaborate Jess Glynne after their hit song "Rather Be" their new single is "Real Love". On December 2, 2014, the band made an announcement that they would be partnering with Lumia, and is currently searching for new directors for their new music videos, via YouTube.
Grace Chatto at Way Out West in Gothenburg, Sweden, August 2014
Milan Neil Amin-Smith at Way Out West in Gothenburg, Sweden, August 2014
