Edward Christopher "Ed" Sheeran (born 17 February 1991) is an English singer-songwriter and guitarist. He also writes and produces songs on his own and created his label, Paw Print Records. Sheeran is recognized for doing pop music. He was born in Halifax, West Yorkshire. He moved to London in 2008 to start a music career. He first played in various events and also made an EP. He then signed a contract with a record company, Atlantic Records.
In 2011 he made his first album, called +. The album went to number one in the music rankings of many countries and had also been certified double platinum. Some of the songs on this album have been successful, such as The A Team and Lego House, (leaked as the third single of the album in November 2011). Also, the song You Need Me, I Don't Need You has been released as a second single in August before the album came out. As the fourth single, ‘Drunk’ was out in January 2012. Finally, the song ‘Give me love’ is released as the sixth and final single of his album +, on November 26th. From this album, his first single The A Team has been recently nominated as the ‘Song of the Year’ for the 2013 Grammy Awards. Sheeran was nominated in many categories at the 2013 BRIT Awards.
Don't, Sheeran's #3 song on his album "X" was released in 2014 and was nominated for several awards. The song was about how Ellie Goulding was cheating on him with One Directions Niall Horan. In the song it says ," it's not like we were both on tour. We were staying on the same hotel floor." Goulding did, in fact, cheat on him while they were staying in the same hotel. Sheeran thought it was very easy to "cut loose" Goulding after he found out she was cheating on him.
Sheeran has won many prizes, for example the prize for the Best British Male Solo Artist at the 2012 BRIT Awards. He has worked with other singers and groups such as Taylor Swift and One Direction. He recently collaborated with Taylor Swift on her new album Red, by doing a duet with her on the song Everything Has Changed. He also collaborated with One Direction for their second album Take Me Home by giving them two songs. He first gave them the song Little Things that he had written with his friend Fiona Bevan when he was 17 years-old. He wrote the song Over Again also on the second album of one direction. It wasn't the first time that the redhead singer collaborated with the boyband. Ed Sheeran wrote the song Moment(who has been select to be on the Deluxe Edition of one direction debut album Up All Night) years ago before giving it to the famous British/Irish boyband in 2011.
In 2005, Sheeran started publishing some EP albums. The first one has been named Orange Room EP. He continued publishing EPs until 2010 when he released Songs I wrote with Amy. It's the last EP released before publishing his album +.
On 24 September, Sheeran announced he would come back in America for doing 22 concerts. The first show being on 17 January and the last one on 14 February. Sheeran performed at the 2012 Olympic Games Closing Ceremony on August 12. He did a cover of the song Wish You Were Here by Pink Floyd.
