Florida Georgia Line is an American bro-country duo comprising Brian Kelley (from Ormond Beach, Florida) and Tyler Hubbard (from Monroe, Georgia). In December 2011, they signed a publishing/production/management deal with Craig Wiseman (Big Loud Shirt Publishing), Kevin "Chief" Zaruk (Chief Music Management), and Joey Moi's (Mountain View Records) partnership, Big Loud Mountain. Their second EP, It'z Just What We Do, charted on the Billboard Top Country Albums chart. They played on the 2012 Country Throwdown Tour, along with acts such as Josh Thompson, Corey Smith, Gary Allan, Justin Moore, and Rodney Atkins. They have also opened for Luke Bryan, Brantley Gilbert, Jake Owen, Colt Ford, and Dierks Bentley. They are currently touring with Jason Aldean on the Jason Aldean 2014 Burn It Down Tour.
On July 16, 2012, Florida Georgia Line signed with Republic Nashville, part of the Big Machine Label Group.
On October 14, 2014 the duo released their second record, Anything Goes.


Florida Georgia Line was formed in 2010 in Nashville, Tennessee. The duo, composed of Tyler Hubbard and Brian Kelley, both grew up and first gained interest in music through church worship services. Kelley, from Ormond Beach, Florida, was a star pitcher on his high school baseball team, leading to a scholarship at Florida State University; he later transferred to Belmont University after it became clear to him he would not succeed in the sport. He began writing music inspired by Christian rock group Casting Crowns. Hubbard, a native of Monroe, Georgia, was a church worship leader who formed a hip hop group, Ingenious Circuit throughout his teens. The two had a myriad of musical interests growing up: "Me and my friends rode trucks, listened to Garth Brooks, Alabama, Lil Wayne and Eminem," said Kelley.
The duo met at Belmont University in 2008 through a campus worship group, and following graduation, decided to give themselves two years to succeed as a country duo. They moved in with one another and began several odd jobs to pay bills, while playing clubs on the weekend. While independent, they recorded and digitally distributed their first EP, Anything Like Me (2010). They were discovered by Nickelback producer Joey Moi at a county fair, and the three began entering the studio together. Unlike typical country music sessions, the group spent days polishing songs, which were collected on the duo's second EP, It'z Just What We Do (2012). In terms of production, the band modeled their sound on bands such as Nickelback, Shinedown, and Three Days Grace, while Moi aimed for each song to resemble hair metal group Def Leppard in structure. Major labels became interested when the song "Cruise" began selling well on iTunes, leading to a deal with Republic Nashville/Big Machine Label Group.
Florida Georgia Line's first EP, released December 14, 2010, is a 6 song EP produced with Wesley Walker. All of the songs were written by either Hubbard or Hubbard and Kelley. The EP consists of the songs "You're Country", "Now That She's Gone", "Man I Am Today", "Never Let Her Go" (co-written with "Cruise" co-writer Chase Rice), "Black Tears", and "Backwoods Beauty Queen". The song "Black Tears" was also on Jason Aldean's 2012 album Night Train.
The duo's second EP is a 5 song EP produced by Joey Moi on Big Loud Mountain Records and released on May 15, 2012. It starts off with "Cruise" and also includes "Get Your Shine On", "Tip It Back", "Tell Me How You Like It", and the title track "It'z Just What We Do".
The duo's first studio album, Here's to the Good Times, was an 11 song album produced by Joey Moi on Republic Nashville and released on December 4, 2012. "Cruise," the first single, reached number 1 on the Country Airplay chart dated December 15, 2012. A remix of "Cruise" featuring Nelly later hit number 4 on the Billboard Hot 100. The song went on to spend 24 weeks at number 1 on the Hot Country Songs chart, setting a record for the longest stay at number 1 in the chart's 70-year history, and was also ranked as the number one country single of 2013 by Billboard.
The album's second single, "Get Your Shine On", was released to country radio on January 21, 2013 and reached number 1 on the Country Airplay chart in May 2013. This song was co-written by the duo along with Rodney Clawson and Chris Tompkins. "Round Here" was released as the album's third single on June 3, 2013 and reached number 1 on the Country Airplay chart in September 2013. The album's fourth single, "Stay", was released to country radio on October 7, 2013. This song was co-written and originally recorded by Black Stone Cherry. It reached number one on the Hot Country Songs and Country Airplay chart in December 2013.
A deluxe edition of Here's to the Good Times titled Here’s To The Good Times… This Is How We Roll was released on November 25, 2013. "This Is How We Roll", a collaboration with Luke Bryan, was released from the deluxe edition as the album's fifth single on February 10, 2014 and reached number 1 on Hot Country Songs in March 2014.
The duo has toured the United States as part of the Dirt Road Diaries Tour featuring Thompson Square and headlining act Luke Bryan.
In June 2013, the album reached number 1 on the Billboard Top Country Albums chart. The album stayed at the top spot for ten weeks.
The duo revealed on August 15, 2014 that their second studio album will be titled Anything Goes with a release date of October 14, 2014. The album's first single, "Dirt" was released to country radio and digital sales outlets on July 8, 2014. The album's second single, "Sun Daze" was released to digital sales outlets on September 16, 2014. A week later, the album's title track, "Anything Goes", was released on September 22, 2014
In February 2014, Hubbard sustained a back injury in a dirt bike accident. On December 16, 2013 Brian married his girlfriend of seven months, Brittney Marie Cole. On September 22, 2014 Tyler Hubbard got engaged to longtime girlfriend Hayley Stommel.
