Icona Pop (English /aɪˈkɒnə pɒp/) is a Swedish DJ duo that formed in 2009, with electro house, punk and indie pop music influences. The two members Caroline Hjelt and Aino Jawo, who grew up in Stockholm, create music "which you can both laugh and cry to at the same time". They signed to TEN Music Group in 2009. Their biggest hit to date has been "I Love It".
The duo received international attention following their debut single "Manners", which was released by Neon Gold on French label Kitsuné, and the extended-play album Nights Like This on English Mercury Records. Since September 2012, the duo have been based in Los Angeles and New York City in the United States.


Caroline Hjelt (born 8 November 1987) and Aino Jawo (born 7 July 1986, of a Finnish mother and Gambian father) attended the same music school in Stockholm, but met by chance at a party in February 2009 and formed the duo. Four weeks later, they had written songs for their very first performance as a duo. Two years later, the duo described their music as "classical pop melodies with drums and synths".
The press, including NME, The Guardian, Rolling Stone and Pitchfork Media, have praised the duo. The Guardian described the debut single "Manners" as "effortlessly cool". The duo has worked in the studio with producers including Style of Eye, Patrick Berger (Robyn), Elof Loelv (Niki & The Dove) and Starsmith.
In fall 2012, the duo released an extended play Iconic in the US and the album Icona Pop in Sweden. The duo have performed in Sweden, the US, the UK, Germany, Italy, Canada, and Hong Kong and have also been interviewed by Swedish and foreign press.
In the summer of 2012, they took part in a number of festivals including electro music festival Summerburst in Gothenburg and also appeared at the Stockholm Stadium, at the start of an international festival and broadcast via Sveriges Television (SVT).
"I Love It", a pre-release of their self-titled debut album Icona Pop charted on Sverigetopplistan, the official Swedish singles chart. The song was also featured in the 2012 video game Need for Speed: Most Wanted, in a German television commercial for Coca-Cola Light in January 2013, the theme song to the American reality-television series Snooki & JWoww, and in an episode of the American comedy-drama television series Girls and the popular vampire-teen drama television series The Vampire Diaries. The second single "Ready for the Weekend" was released on 11 September 2012. Both tracks appear on their second extended-play album, released on 16 October 2012. "I Love It" was also used in the advert for the Samsung Galaxy S4.
Their EP Iconic EP reached a peak height of 21 on the U.S. iTunes dance chart. In 2013, they embarked on a tour of the United States with Passion Pit and Matt & Kim. In January 2013, "I Love It" was featured in the third episode of the second season of Girls, an HBO show created by Lena Dunham. In March 2013, the duo was named one of Fuse television's 30 must-see artists at the South by Southwest festival. In March 2013, "I Love It" was featured in the sixteenth episode of the fourth season, named "Bring It On", of The Vampire Diaries. On 26 March 2013, "I Love It" was performed on the week 2 results show of Dancing with the Stars. On 3 May 2013, the duo performed "I Love It" on the late-night talk show, Late Night with Jimmy Fallon and on the Good Morning America morning news/entertainment show. On 6 May 2013, "I Love It" was featured in the FOX musical-comedy series, Glee. The song was performed by the "New Directions" in Glee's twenty-second and final episode of season four, "All or Nothing". This song is featured in a 2013 ShoeDazzle commercial. The song also is featured in a commercial for the WNBA's upcoming season that was aired during the 4th quarter of Game 7 of the Heat-Pacers Eastern Conference Championship game on 3 June 2013. It was also featured in a commercial during the Spurs-Heat game on 9 June 2013.
On 4 June 2013, the duo released their new single "Girlfriend". Icona Pop revealed in one interview that they recorded their international album with all new songs. The duo said that "the new album isn't just going to be sixteen tracks like 'I Love It'" and that they are trying new genres and sounds. In July 2013, Icona Pop received two Teen Choice awards for Choice Music Breakout Group and Choice Single: Group.
On 4 August 2013, the duo visited Montreal, where they participated in the annual Osheaga Festival.
