Imagine Dragons is an American rock band from Las Vegas, Nevada. The band gained exposure following the September 2012 release of their debut studio album, Night Visions and first single "It's Time". The album peaked at number two on the weekly Billboard 200 chart and led to a worldwide tour during much of 2013. According to Billboard, Imagine Dragons topped the year-end rock rankings for 2013; Billboard named them "The Breakthrough Band of 2013", and Rolling Stone named their single "Radioactive" "the biggest rock hit of the year". MTV called them "the year's biggest breakout band".
Imagine Dragons' line up consists of lead vocalist Dan Reynolds, guitarist Wayne "Wing" Sermon, bassist Ben McKee and drummer Daniel Platzman.
The band's debut album Night Visions has sold over 2 million copies in the US, and it has been certified platinum in twelve countries. The album is also certified gold in multiple countries.
In response to their debut album Imagine Dragons won an American Music Award for Favorite Alternative Artist, a Grammy Award for Best Rock Performance, five Billboard Music Awards, and a World Music Award. In May 2014, the band was nominated for a total of fourteen different Billboard Music Awards, including Top Artist of the Year and a Milestone Award, recognizing innovation and creativity of different artists across different genres.
The band's upcoming second studio album Smoke + Mirrors was announced in 2014 and is planned for release on February 17, 2015.


In 2008, lead singer Dan Reynolds met drummer Andrew Tolman at Brigham Young University where they were both students. Tolman recruited longtime high school friend Daniel Wayne "Wing" Sermon, who had graduated from Berklee College of Music. Tolman later recruited his wife, Brittany Tolman, to sing backup and play keys. Sermon then recruited another Berklee music student, Ben McKee, to join the band and complete the lineup. The band garnered a large following in their hometown of Provo, Utah, before the members moved to Las Vegas, the hometown of Dan Reynolds, where the band recorded and released their first three EPs.
The band released EPs titled Imagine Dragons and Hell and Silence in 2010, both recorded at Battle Born Studios, in Las Vegas. They returned to the studio in 2011. Another EP, It's Time, was made before they signed a record deal.
They got their first big break when Train's frontman fell sick just prior to the Bite of Las Vegas Festival 2009. Imagine Dragons were called to fill in and performed to a crowd of more than 26,000 people. Local accolades including "Best CD of 2011" (Vegas SEVEN), "Best Local Indie Band 2010" (Las Vegas Weekly), "Las Vegas' Newest Must See Live Act" (Las Vegas CityLife), Vegas Music Summit Headliner 2010, and more sent the band on a positive trajectory. In November 2011 they signed with Interscope Records and began working with English Grammy winning producer Alex da Kid. Eventually the Tolmans would leave the group and Daniel Platzman would be recruited by invitation from Ben McKee, prior to the signing of band's label deal in November 2011.
Imagine Dragons worked closely with Alex da Kid, with whom they recorded their first major label release at Westlake Recording Studios in West Hollywood, California. An EP entitled Continued Silence was released on Valentine's Day (February 14, 2012) digitally and peaked at number 40 on the Billboard 200. The band also released an EP titled Hear Me in 2012.
Shortly after, "It's Time" was released as a single and peaked at number 15 on the Billboard Hot 100. The music video debuted on April 17, 2012 on all MTV affiliates and was subsequently nominated for an MTV Video Music Award in the "Best Rock Video" category. "It's Time" was certified a double platinum single by the RIAA.
The band finished recording its debut album Night Visions in the summer of 2012 at Studio X inside Palms Casino Resort and released the album in the United States on the day after Labor Day (September 4, 2012). It peaked at No. 2 on the Billboard 200 chart with first week sales in excess of 83,000 copies, the highest charting for a debut rock album since 2006. The album also reached No. 1 on the Billboard Alternative and Rock Album charts as well as the top ten on the Australian, Austrian, Canadian, Dutch, German, Irish, Norwegian, Portuguese, Scottish, Spanish, and United Kingdom Albums charts. It won a Billboard Music Award for Top Rock Album and was nominated for the Juno Award for International Album of the Year. Night Visions is certified platinum by the RIAA as well as in Australia, Austria, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and the UK. The album produced three tracks that reached the Billboard Top 40, four tracks in the ARIA Top 40, and five tracks charting in the UK Top 40.
The album's second single "Radioactive" reached No. 1 on the Billboard Alternative Songs, Billboard Rock Songs, and Swedish singles chart and has sold more than seven million singles in the United States, smashing a record by spending 87 weeks on the Billboard Hot 100. "Radioactive" stayed at No. 1 on the Hot Rock Songs chart for a record-breaking 23 weeks and ultimately became the genre's biggest hit of 2013. It peaked at No. 3, becoming their first top ten single in the United States and broke the record for the longest run into the top five. It is the best-selling rock song on the Nielsen SoundScan running list of best-selling rock songs in digital history. By the end of 2013, "Radioactive" had already sold over 3 million copies. Rolling Stone called it "the biggest rock hit of the year". It was also the most streamed song of 2013 on Spotify in the United States. It was nominated for the Grammy Award for Record of the Year and the Grammy Award for Best Rock Performance at the 56th Annual Grammy Awards, winning the latter of the two.
Third single "Demons" reached on the No. 1 Billboard Pop Songs and No. 6 on the Billboard Hot 100 and has sold more than 3 million copies in the United States to date.
Billboard listed them as one of "2012's Brightest New Stars" and later "The Breakout Band of 2013". Imagine Dragons won the 2014 Billboard Music Awards for Top Duo/Group, Top Hot 100 Artist, and Top Rock Artist. Amazon.com called the band their "Favorite Rock artist of 2012".
Imagine Dragons has performed "It's Time" live on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno (2012) and Jimmy Kimmel Live! (2012) and Late Night with Jimmy Fallon (2012), and Conan (2013). They performed "Radioactive" live on Jimmy Kimmel Live! (2012), The Late Show with David Letterman (2013), The Tonight Show with Jay Leno (2013), Late Night with Jimmy Fallon (2013), and the MTV Europe Music Awards (2013). They also performed on Good Morning America (2013). The band performed an exclusive show for the sixth season finale of the TV series Live from the Artists Den (2013). The band also performed at the American Music Awards (2013), MTV Europe Music Awards (2013), Grammy Awards (2014), on Saturday Night Live (2014), at the Billboard Music Awards (2014), and the MuchMusic Video Awards (2014). They also headlined the MLB's Target All-Star Concert (2014) and the inaugural Made In America Music Festival Los Angeles. Imagine Dragons performed a version of "Revolution" at The Night That Changed America: A Grammy Salute to The Beatles (2014).
In 2013, Imagine Dragons returned to Europe and North America with the Night Visions Tour. The band announced 13 additional US summer tour dates which also sold out. The band then announced a North America Amphitheatre tour. The band also confirmed that they were unable to fulfill the request of acting as support for Muse. Pollstar listed the band in their Top 20 Concert Tours list by average box office gross despite their average ticket price being the third lowest on the list.
The band released a live album, Live at Independent Records, in April 2013.
At Lollapalooza in Sao Paulo, Brazil, the last date on the Into the Night Tour, the band announced a rest, and complemented saying, "This is our last show for a while, and had no better place to end this tour". The conclusion of the Into the Night Tour signaled the end of the Night Visions album cycle. Lead singer Dan Reynolds joked about the end of the Night Visions cycle, saying that "We're always writing on the road, [so] that second album will come, unless we die at the age of 27 next year. Hopefully we don't die and there will be a second album. I don't know when it will be, but it may come".
The idea behind the second studio album, dubbed as their "new year's resolution", was to create music and finish it when the band feels that their work is done. Reynolds told MTV in 2014 that the band wanted to "put out an album that we're really happy with". He further said that "we tend to be perfectionists, too hard on ourselves at times, and we don't want to rush anything because we know how we are with things. We don't want to put a record out until we really feel good about it, you know, and who knows how long that will take". Since the beginning of the Night Visions Tour, the band had been writing new material for an upcoming album, and, even as early as the start of the tour, had been recording demos for the album, before entering the studio. By the time that they entered the studio to work on the album, they had amassed 50 demos to work from. The demos had been described by Reynolds as "definitely different", but added that "it’s still Imagine Dragons, but we’ve got a lot of growth and maturing to do as a band. I think the new material is going to hopefully be a step in the right direction. We’re just trying to create and do what comes out and what feels right". Drummer Daniel Platzman added that the band are critical of themselves, with "no room for external pressure".
Inspired greatly by the band's travels on both their previous tours and the Night Visions Tour, the album will explore world culture as a musical item and overall motif in the album. Dan Reynolds told New Orleans-based newspaper The Times-Picayune that there was "a lot of inspiration to be drawn from [the world tour]. You kind of realize that you’re a lot smaller than you think". In addition, Reynolds stated to music magazine Rolling Stone that the next album will be "different" from Night Visions, and that the band intends the album to be "stripped back quite a bit". He added that "we embraced a lot of hip-hop influences with Night Visions, but I think the next record will be more rock-driven. It’s too early to say, but there is some weird stuff going on in these songs".
On June 2, the band released a song for the film Transformers: Age of Extinction, called "Battle Cry".
On September 17, the band, in collaboration with the music department at Riot Games, released the song "Warriors" for the 2014 League of Legends World Championship.
On October 19, Imagine Dragons performed in Seoul World Cup Stadium, South Korea, at the 2014 League of Legends World Championship.
On October 24, they revealed the lead single to the upcoming album, "I Bet My Life" via several visual snippets on Facebook and Instagram. It was released on October 27. It will be sent to US Alternative radio for adds on November 3.
On November 30, the band performed the halftime show at the 102nd Grey Cup in Vancouver, British Columbia.
On December 12, 2014 Imagine Dragons posted on social media a request that fans in the US look around their city for some surprises and post their findings. They also hinted about two locations in Las Vegas. Shortly, billboards featuring artwork, the band's name, a hashtag ("#smoke+mirrors"), and an additional titles, presumed to be the track names were discovered. The following titles were revealed "Summer", "Shots", "Polaroid", "I'm So Sorry", and "Gold". Next, the band direct messaged various fans puzzle pieces of the artwork for the album (each file numbered, at least 13 in total). When combined, the puzzle pieces appear to reveal the cover art and album title. The title, cover art, and release date were revealed on social media two days later.
On January 26, 2015 Imagine Dragons (without notice) released the first song "Shots" off of their upcoming album "Smoke + Mirrors" on spotify, then later on iTunes.
On February 5, 2015 Imagine Dragons (along with Metric who did a 3 song acoustic set) played at the Mayan theater in Los Angeles. First a "Q and A" took place then a show. The 30 minute set included the breakthrough songs "it's time" and "radioactive" from "Night Visions". They debuted "Summer" and "I'm so sorry" for the first time live along with "Gold" and "I bet my life" from the upcoming album "Smoke + Mirrors" set to release on February 17th 2015. They also announced their North American tour that will include openers "Metric" and "Halsey". The first show for the North American tour will be in "Portland Oregon" on June 3rd 2015.
In 2013, along with the family of Tyler Robinson, Imagine Dragons started a charity named The Tyler Robinson Foundation, helping young people battling cancer. In 2014, the first Tyler Robinson Foundation Gala was held in Las Vegas. Imagine Dragons performed for "Playing It Forward" (S1 E2) to raise $100k for school music programs. In 2013, the band partnered with mtvU to help choose four Fulbright-mtvU Fellowship recipients. In 2013, Imagine Dragons partnered with Do The Write Thing: National Campaign to Stop Violence for a fundraising event. Imagine Dragons performed as part of Amnesty International's "Bringing Human Rights Home" concert in Brooklyn on February 5, 2014.
Dan Reynolds cites Arcade Fire, Nirvana, Muse, The Beatles, Paul Simon, and Harry Nilsson as some of his and the band's artistic influences. In terms of success, Reynolds credits bands like Foster the People and Mumford & Sons for bringing alternative pop music to a new level of commercial success in recent years.
Imagine Dragons have received a Grammy Award, two American Music Awards, five Billboard Music Awards, a Premios 40 Principales Award, and a World Music Award.
