Meghan Elizabeth Trainor (born December 22, 1993) is an American singer-songwriter and record producer. Trainor began singing at the age of 6 and songwriting at age 11. She later became a member of a band called Island Fusion and a jazz band at high school. At the age of 15, Trainor produced and released a self-titled album. She then attended the Berklee College of Music and found success at a variety of songwriting contests across the United States. In 2011, she released two acoustic albums, I'll Sing with You and Only 17. The latter earned her a song publishing deal with Big Yellow Dog Music, where she wrote for Rascal Flatts and Sabrina Carpenter, among others.
In February 2014, Trainor was signed to Epic Records by L.A. Reid after performing her song "All About That Bass" on the ukulele for him. The song was later championed by Reid as Trainor's debut single and saw a release on June 30, 2014. "All About That Bass" became a best-selling single. It was number one on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 for eight consecutive weeks. The single preceded Trainor's debut EP Title, which debuted at number 15 on the Billboard 200 in September 2014. Trainor's second single, "Lips Are Movin", marked her second consecutive top five hit on the Billboard Hot 100, peaking at number four. Her debut album, Title, was released on January 9, 2015.
Trainor's music is predominantly bubblegum pop, blue-eyed soul, doo-wop and pop in sound. Her lyrics mainly deal with subjects of 21st-century womanhood and self-empowerment. Trainor's work has been recognized with a variety of award nominations, including Record of the Year and Song of the Year for "All About That Bass" at the 57th Annual Grammy Awards.


Meghan Elizabeth Trainor was born on December 22, 1993, in Nantucket, Massachusetts. Her parents, Gary and Kellie Trainor, are the owners of jewelry store, Jewel of the Isle. Outside their business, Trainor's father taught music for eight years and being a musician all his life, plays organ in a Methodist church. Trainor's mother runs her Facebook page. She has an older brother, Ryan (born 1992), and a younger brother, Justin; and considers Ryan to be her "twin". As a baby, her mother would sing her lullabies and "get totally freaked out" when she started singing them back in harmony. Trainor began singing at the age of six, and writing songs at age 11. She told her father at this age that she had an "awesome voice and needed to record it". According to Trainor, radio became "her life" when she was growing up. She played American football between her third and fifth grade at school. Her first live performance was in 2004 at the wedding of her aunt and uncle, Lisa and Burton Toney, where she played the song "Heart and Soul" from the piano. At the age of 12, Trainor began performing professionally. She was in a band called Island Fusion, which comprised her parents, younger brother, aunt and uncle. They performed soca-inspired music at local bars and Nantucket watering holes. By age 13, Trainor penned her first song, "Give Me a Chance". The same year, Trainor's parents bought her software application GarageBand, from which she began producing music. According to her parents, Trainor's father would hand her a guitar and say, "Here's a couple of chords," and she would return to him knowing the chords with a song written in its entirety. Her father insisted that she write for every genre, to which her mother said she "did a lot by ear". Trainor was raised in Nantucket until later in her eighth grade of high school before her family temporarily moved to in Orleans, Massachusetts, and then re-located to North Eastham, Massachusetts, where her parents bought a house. Trainor and her siblings attended Nauset Regional High School there. She developed her musical talent playing alongside NRBQ members, Johnny and Joey Spampinato, and took guitar lessons from the former. She was a member of a jazz band for three years during high school and would develop music at a studio from home. During this time, Trainor obtained her nickname, Singer Girl.
At the age of 15, Trainor enrolled at the Berklee College of Music. She attended a five-week course at the college in 2009 and 2010, receiving high marks and reaching the finals of their songwriting competition. That year, Trainor home-produced her eponymous debut album from GarageBand. In 2009, Trainor's parents "dragged" her to songwriting conventions. Her father stated that Trainor "thought she was one of the chubby girls who would never be an artist" and for this reason she gravitated to song publishing. Trainor's self-titled album was followed-up by two acoustic albums in 2011, I'll Sing with You and Only 17; All three albums were self-released. The former was finished in December 2010, and the latter was a predominantly pop album with influences of jazz and country. Trainor collaborated with her father on three jazz-influenced songs featured on Only 17. Throughout 2010 and 2011, Trainor established herself as a singer-songwriter, achieving success songwriting contests held across the United States. She self-released a song, "Take Care of Our Soldiers," to which all proceeds went to the United Service Organizations. Trainor performed twice at the Bluebird Cafe and toured the Belmont University in 2011. Only 17 was then handed to NRBQ member Al Anderson at a songwriters expo in Durango. Anderson passed on the album to Carla Wallace of Big Yellow Dog Music who offered Trainor a publishing deal at the age of 17. Trainor's parents encouraged her to pass up college for the publishing deal, quipping, "You can learn more with this job than you can in a classroom". She then decided to write songs and travel. Trainor later dropped out at Berklee due to creative differences with students and professors at the college. She felt she was capable enough to accomplish herself as a songwriter, and left before her last class, stating, "I know how to write a song".
Following her deal with Big Yellow Dog, Trainor endured "a struggle" as a songwriter where no one in Los Angeles wanted to write with her. At the age of 19, Trainor became frustrated with the long-distance travelling she did to pursue her career; she traveled by boat, and then two hours by car and six hours by plane to arrive in Los Angeles for her songwriting sessions. Trainor's parents did not want her to relocate to Los Angeles because they felt that the move would be "terrifying" and expensive. However, with the publishing income Trainor earned, she could afford to relocate to Nashville, Tennessee, instead. That year, she attained her first songwriting cuts by penning for recording artists from Italy and Denmark, and then writing the lead single for American teen actress Sabrina Carpenter's debut extended play (EP), Can't Blame a Girl for Trying (2014). In Nashville, she started writing with Shay Mooney of country duo Dan + Shay, where the pair would go on to pen two songs for country group Rascal Flatts' Rewind (2014). Trainor also wrote for country singer Hunter Hayes and American band R5. Outside her songwriting career, Trainor would sing lead and backing vocals for the demos of some artists. Speaking to The Daily Beast, Trainor mentioned, "I was writing all these country songs, but I thought, 'This isn't really my kind of music'". In April 2013, Trainor met songwriter and producer Kevin Kadish through a mutual friend in Nashville who arranged that the two come together for a songwriting session. Trainor described meeting Kadish as "finding your favorite songwriter," and told the Cape Cod Times, "After two years of writing for so many people, I finally found someone that is like me but in another body". She moved to Nashville in November 2013. During this time, Trainor was aspiring to become a recording artist by age 25 as she felt by that time she would know what her style of music should sound like. In an interview with CBS Radio, she recalled telling her father: "I'm going to be a pop star, but not yet. I gotta get in good shape and get sexy, because sex sells. I'll wait until I'm 25 and can handle it".
Kadish and Trainor went on to pen a song together, "All About That Bass". The pair offered the track to various record labels and recording artists, including Beyoncé and Adele, to which they proved unsuccessful. Trainor then recorded the song herself, and performed it on the ukulele to Epic Records chairman L.A. Reid. In February 2014, Reid signed Trainor to Epic and championed "All About That Bass" as her debut single. Troy Carter was assigned as Trainor's manager. "All About That Bass" was released on June 30, 2014, and its music video rose to prominence as a viral hit. The track went on to top the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 for eight non-consecutive weeks. The result made Trainor the 21st female artist in Billboard history to top the chart with their debut hit. The song bettered Michael Jackson's seven-week record with "Billie Jean" (1983) and "Black or White" (1991) for the longest-reigning number one by an Epic artist. It made British chart history, becoming the first single to chart within the top 40 of the UK Singles Chart, without any contributing digital or physical sales, but with streaming points alone. It tied Clean Bandit's "Rather Be" as the longest-running number-one of 2014 in the United Kingdom, spending four consecutive weeks atop the chart. "All About That Bass" reached number one in 58 countries and became one of the best-selling singles of all-time, with worldwide sales in excess of six million copies as of December 2014.
"All About That Bass" preceded Trainor's debut extended play (EP), Title, released on September 9, 2014. It was composed entirely by Trainor and Kadish, and peaked at number 15 on the Billboard 200 and number 17 on the Canadian Albums Chart. Trainor followed-up the success of "All About That Bass" with her second single, "Lips Are Movin", released on October 21, 2014. The song's music video was commissioned by Hewlett-Packard who later endorsed Trainor as part of a promotional campaign for their HP Pavilion product. The single became Trainor's second consecutive top five hit on the Billboard Hot 100, where it peaked at number four. "Lips Are Movin" marked her second top 10 hit in Australia and Canada, and third in New Zealand. Trainor popularized herself during this time by performing cover versions on the ukulele of Sam Smith's "Stay with Me", Justin Bieber's "Mistletoe", and Taylor Swift's "Shake It Off". She self-penned and self-produced a song, "I'll Be Home", for a Christmas compilation EP, I'll Be Home for Christmas. The EP was released on November 17, 2014, and the track was praised by critics and reached number five on the U.S. Adult Contemporary Songs chart. Trainor also co-wrote American girl band Fifth Harmony's single "Sledgehammer". In November 2014, she appeared as a guest mentor on the seventh season of American series The Voice. Trainor was nominated for New Artist of the Year at the American Music Awards and Favorite Breakout Artist at the People's Choice Awards. "All About That Bass" received nominations for Best Song with a Social Message at the MTV Europe Music Awards, Favorite Song at the People's Choice Awards, and Record of the Year and Song of the Year at the 57th Annual Grammy Awards. Trainor was listed as the fourth most Trending Music Artist in Google's Year in Search for 2014. Billboard ranked her as the fourth best new artist of the year, and placed Trainor 12th on their on 21 Under 21 2014 list.
Sony Music Entertainment requested that Trainor's previous publisher, Big Dog Yellow Music, pull Trainor's three self-released albums from circulation in the build-up to her major label debut, Title. As a result, Title serves and is recognized as Trainor's debut studio album. It acts as a full-length replacement of her EP of the same name, and was released on January 9, 2015. The album's supporting and Trainor's first headlining concert tour, That Bass Tour, is scheduled to begin on February 11, 2015, with Australian band Sheppard as its opening act.
Growing up, Trainor was introduced by her father to 1950s music, doo-wop, jazz and the works of James Brown. She considers doo-wop to be the "catchiest stuff," and cites soca as one of her favorite genres and her "true love". Trainor has stated that she aims to popularize the genre with her music and said, "soca music gets me through everything". She told CBS Radio, "That's my pop music – reggae, soca, kaiso, that's what I listen to every morning". Trainor credits 1950s music, soca and Frank Sinatra for influencing her hip hop, pop musical blend. As a songwriter, she is influenced by Sinatra, and has said, "No one writes like [Sinatra] anymore, because it's hard". Trainor has said that before songwriting and recording sessions she had in Los Angeles, she would play Sinatra's music. She is inspired by Stevie Wonder and Phil Collins, and has named the 1999 Tarzan soundtrack—on which Collins features—as her favorite album during her youth. Other artists that have influenced Trainor include Ariana Grande, Christina Aguilera, Earth Wind & Fire, Jason Mraz, *NSYNC, Ray Charles, and T-Pain. She considers Bruno Mars to be her favorite artist, and has deemed him "a god". Trainor wishes to collaborate with Mars, and has said she aspires to become the "female version" of him. Her debut single, "All About That Bass" was inspired by Mars' "Just the Way You Are" (2010). She has regularly stated that it is her dream to write for Rihanna. Trainor cites Beyoncé as her dancing inspiration, and called her "the one performer [she] studies a lot".
Trainor is identified as a singer-songwriter. Her sound is predominantly bubblegum pop, blue-eyed soul, doo-wop and pop. Trainor's debut EP Title comprises throwback style sound, and 1950s doo wop-inspired songs that straddle the line between modern R&B and melodic pop. Musically, her output has been compared to the works of American singer-songwriters Jenny Lewis and Neko Case, and 1960s singers; Doris Day, Betty Everett, Rosemary Clooney and Eydie Gormé. Trainor plays a variety of musical instruments: bass, guitar, ukulele, keyboard, trumpet, percussion, piano and bongo. She feels that a song's melody is more important than its lyrics. As a songwriter, Trainor is able to compose songs of a variety of genres, including: country, hip hop, reggae and soca. She prefers to write in the style of doo-wop and reggae. According to Trainor, she can pen a song in 45 minutes. She feels songwriters are not recognized, and likened herself to Australian musician Sia, stating, "Sia wrote all those songs and finally made it [as an artist], and she's been around forever too."
"When they told me, 'You should write an album,' I thought, 'What would I want to say to the world?' I want to help myself. I want to make sure guys take me on a date and treat me right because I didn't do that in the past. I want to love my body more. I just hope younger girls love themselves more, and younger people in general. I always wrote that down on my vision boards at home: people should love themselves more. I wish I did when I was in high school growing up."
Trainor's vocals have been described as "soulful" and "highly resonant," and "a reedy cross" between Katy Perry and Taylor Swift. Chris DeVille of Stereogum opined that she is "a very capable singer," and wrote that Trainor "project[s] lots of character and emotion within a relatively limited range". When singing, Trainor uses a Southern American English patois. She has a passion for harmonies, and the harmonies in her music have been likened to those of 1960s girl groups. Trainor's lyrics are recognized to contemplate 21st-century womanhood. She has said that she aims to "break the chains" of the "absurd standards of thinness" promoted by the beauty industry, with her lyrics. Trainor believes that "Everyone is born to be different, and [yet] that's the thing that makes us all the same." She considers her lyrics to be "too young for Kesha and too old for Disney". Trainor described her 2014 EP, Title, as focusing on being "an awkward 19-, 20-year-old, when you're pretty sure you're an adult but you're not, yet". However, her lyrics have been dismissed by some critics as being anti-feminist and contradictory. In response to the anti-feminism claims, Trainor stated in an interview with Billboard: "I don't consider myself a feminist, but I'm down for my first opportunity to say something to the world to be so meaningful. If you asked me, 'What do you want to say?' it would be, 'Love yourself more.'" An inexperienced dancer, Trainor has recalled the routine in her music video for "All About That Bass" as her first occasion of dancing professionally. She experiences nerves dancing in front of an audience and has stated, "It takes time to reach Taylor Swift's I-don't-care-how-ridiculous-I-look dancing confidence levels".
Trainor's personality has been described as "quirky," "feisty," "spunky" and "sassy". Popjustice wrote, "She has a very perky attitude and we would like to get drunk with her". She has described herself as being "really bad with fashion," and as a teen, her staple style would comprise a black hoodie and black leggings. In an interview with Billboard, she stated that she was not familiar with fashion until she was signed to Epic. As a teen, Trainor's image was primarily "straight-up tomboy" and she was oblivious to products such as make-up and hair irons. Rolling Stone deemed Trainor "2014's Most Unlikely Pop Star". The Guardian called her "the poster girl for the larger woman" and "pop's emblem for self-acceptance".
Fashion Times wrote that Trainor "inspired many women to embrace their curves". On November 1, 2014, American music historian Joel Whitburn stated, "I think Meghan Trainor is going to be an artist for a long time". Billboard wrote that Trainor had solidified herself as the "queen of her own genre, 'she-wop'". She was billed as "an alternative to pop's otherwise stick-thin image". Entertainment Weekly dubbed Trainor a "Pop Phenomenon," while the Daily Express called her "a new breed of pop star". The Huffington Post described Trainor as "a more relatable role model than many other young popsters today," and felt "her example might just encourage other young adults to stand up, say 'enough is enough,' and change the world." Publications have mentioned that she has served as an inspiration to youth who struggle with their body image and bullying. Trainor has also received praise from Becky G, Betty Who, Beyoncé, Brad Paisley, Colbie Caillat, Jennifer Hudson, John Legend, Miranda Lambert, and T-Pain. Her fanbase are collectively identified as Megatrons.
