Nicholas Jerry "Nick" Jonas (born September 16, 1992) is an American singer-songwriter, musician, actor and multi-instrumentalist, best known as one of the Jonas Brothers, a pop-rock band he formed with his brothers Kevin and Joe. The Jonas Brothers originally started as an attempted solo singing career for Nick Jonas, but the record producer liked the sound when his brothers sang backup for him. Nick previously starred in the Disney Channel original series Jonas L.A. as Nick Lucas, alongside his brothers. He also starred in the Disney Channel original movie Camp Rock and Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam. He formed the band Nick Jonas & The Administration, which released its first album in 2010. He also currently stars in the DirectTV drama series Kingdom which premiered on the Audience Network in the fall of 2014.


Nicholas Jerry Jonas was born in Dallas, Texas. His mother, Denise (née Miller), is a former sign language teacher and singer, and his father, Paul Kevin Jonas, Sr., is a songwriter, musician, and former ordained minister at an Assemblies of God church. He was raised in Wyckoff, New Jersey and homeschooled by his mother. Nick is of Italian (from a great-grandfather), German, English, Irish, Scottish, Cherokee, and French-Canadian descent. He has two older brothers, Kevin (born 1987), Joe (born 1989) and a younger brother, Frankie (born 2000). He has one niece named, Alena Rose, who was born on February 2, 2014.
Jonas's career started when he was discovered at the age of six in a barber shop, while his mother was getting her hair cut and was referred to a professional show business manager. At the age of 7, he began performing on Broadway. He had acted in several plays, including A Christmas Carol (in 2000 as Tiny Tim and Scrooge at eight), Annie Get Your Gun (in 2001 as Little Jake), Beauty and the Beast (in 2002 as Chip), and Les Misérables (in 2003 as Gavroche). After Les Misérables closed, he performed in The Sound of Music (as Kurt) at the Paper Mill Playhouse.
In 2002, while performing in Beauty and the Beast, Jonas wrote a song with his father called "Joy to the World (A Christmas Prayer)." With background vocals from the Beauty and the Beast cast, Nick recorded the song on the 2002 annual Broadway "Equity Fights AIDS" album, Broadway's Greatest Gifts: Carols for a Cure, Vol. 4. In November 2003, INO Records received a demo copy of "Joy to the World (A Christmas Prayer)". The label released the song to Christian radio, where it quickly became popular on Record & Radio's Christian Adult Contemporary Chart.
By September 2004, an executive at Columbia Records discovered Jonas' song.f He was soon jointly signed to INO Records and Columbia Records and released the single "Dear God". A second single, "Joy to the World (A Christmas Prayer)" (a re-recorded version), was released on November 16. It was supposed to be followed by a December release of a self-titled solo album Nicholas Jonas, but the album was pushed back. It did, however, get a limited release. Nick, along with his brothers, Kevin and Joe, co-wrote songs for the album. In early 2005, Columbia Records' new president, Steve Greenberg, heard Jonas' record. While Greenberg did not like the album, he did like Nick's voice.
After meeting with Jonas and hearing the song, "Please Be Mine", written and performed by the brothers, Daylight/Columbia Records decided to sign the three as a group act. After being signed to Columbia, the brothers considered naming their group "Sons of Jonas" before settling on the name "Jonas Brothers." It's About Time, the brothers' first album was released on August 8, 2006. According to the band's manager, it was only a "limited release" of a little over 50,000 copies. Because Sony was not interested in further promoting the band, the Jonas Brothers considered switching labels. The band was ultimately dropped by Columbia Records in early 2007.
After shortly being without a label, the Jonas Brothers signed with Hollywood Records in February 2007. Around the same time, brothers began appearing in commercials for Baby Bottle Pops, singing the jingle. Their self-titled second album, Jonas Brothers, was released on August 7, 2007. It reached number five on the Billboard 200 chart in its first week. It has since sold over three million copies worldwide. On August 17, 2007, Jonas, along with his brothers, guest starred in an episode of Hannah Montana, which aired after the premiere of High School Musical 2 and the Disney Channel show Phineas and Ferb. The episode broke basic cable records with a record 10.7 million viewers and became basic cable's most watched series telecast ever.
The reality short series, Jonas Brothers: Living the Dream, premiered on Disney Channel on May 16, 2008. The show, which ran until September 5, 2008, documents the brothers' lives on the Look Me in the Eyes Tour. The name was inspired by the band's hit song "When You Look Me in the Eyes". The series was renewed for a second season, which premiered on March 21, 2010. The second season follows the band on the European leg of their World Tour 2009. Jonas and his brothers filmed a Disney Channel Original Movie called Camp Rock where they play a band called "Connect Three." Joe plays the lead male role as lead singer "Shane Gray"; Nick plays the role of "Nate," a guitarist; and Kevin plays the role of "Jason," also a guitarist. A soundtrack for the movie was released on June 17, 2008. The movie premiered on June 20, 2008, in the USA on Disney Channel, and Canada on Family. Production began on the sequel, Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam in September 2009 and it premiered during the summer of 2010.
The Jonas Brothers' third studio album, A Little Bit Longer, was released in the United States on August 12, 2008. It sold over 2 million copies worldwide. The Jonas Brothers were listed number 9 on the richest pop acts of 2008. Jonas and his brothers starred in the Disney Channel Original Series JONAS about a pop band trying to live a normal life, which premiered May 2, 2009 and concluded on March 14, 2010. Filming for the second season began in February 2010. The second season was renamed Jonas L.A., and premiered on June 20, 2010. On November 8, 2010, it was announced that the series had been cancelled. The Jonas Brothers' fourth studio album, Lines, Vines and Trying Times, was released in the United States in June 2009.
Jonas' side project from the Jonas Brothers called Nick Jonas & the Administration released their debut album Who I Am was released February 2, 2010. In January 2010, Jonas embarked on the Who I Am Tour with the Administration. The tour consisted of 22 dates that began on January 2, 2010, in Dallas, Texas and concluded on January 30, 2010, in Berkeley, California. Jonas also toured with his brothers again in 2010. In September 2011 and October 2011, Nick Jonas & The Administration began touring through South America in support of their debut album, Who I Am.
On June 21, 2010, Jonas made his West End debut performing in Les Misérables for the second time, but this time as the role of Marius Pontmercy. Jonas was originally supposed to play the role for only three weeks, but was able to extend his run until July 24, 2010, because of changes in the Jonas Brothers tour schedule. He also appeared in the 25th Anniversary Concert at The O2 Arena on October 3, 2010, again playing the role of Marius Pontmercy. From August 5–7, 2011, Jonas performed in the musical Hairspray as Link Larkin at the Hollywood Bowl. Jonas appeared in the 2011 series Mr. Sunshine; he played Eli White, an up-and-coming singer who wants everything his way before he performs at the Sunshine Center. He also plays the role of Ryan on the sitcom Last Man Standing.
In February 2012, he appeared in episode of Smash in the role of Lyle West, a young musician and television star backing a promising Broadway musical; Jonas will reprise the role of Lyle West in the show's season finale on May 14. Nick had a cameo appearance in the last episode of the second season of the comedy web series Submissions Only. Jonas was to perform in the musical "How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying" as J. Pierrepont Finch from January 24 till July 1, 2012. However, the musical ended its run on May 20. Jonas recorded 5 songs for the How To Succeed in Business soundtrack.
On March 6, 2012, the Jonas Brothers released a video on Twitter of them in their home studio, along with the hashtag "#JonasBrothers2012", suggesting that a reunion was occurring. Starting on August 19, 2012, the eldest Jonas brother will appear in an E! reality series alongside his wife Danielle and brothers Nick and Joe. "Married to Jonas" will document the young couple's domestic life as well as the brothers' recording efforts as they prepare to release their newest group album.
On May 1, 2012, it was announced that after 6 years with Hollywood Records, the Jonas Brothers had parted ways with their label. The band has bought back the rights to their master recordings, merchandising, and publishing, and plans to release their upcoming fifth album with a new label.
On July 4, 2012, Jonas joined his brother, Joe Jonas on stage and performed a collection of Jonas Brothers songs toghter at Philly's Fourth of July Jam. On July 18, 2012, he joined Demi Lovato in Los Angeles on stage at the Greek Theatre during her Summer Tour 2012 and performed the songs "Don't Forget" and "Catch Me" with her.
On July 30, 2012, Jonas was reportedly in final negotiations to join the judging panel in the twelfth season of Fox's American Idol. On August 4, 2012, he released a statement that he considered the judging role. However, on August 27, 2012, it was reported that he had signed a deal with Fox to be a guest mentor next to Demi Lovato on The X Factor after she chose the four people that would continue on in the contest.
On May 21, 2013 it was announced that on June 16 Nick would co-host the Miss USA 2013 competition on NBC. He also joined his brothers for a performance during the show. On August 13 he announced that he would play a guest role as an computer hacker on a fall episode of the fourth season of the TV series Hawaii Five-0.
On October 9, 2013, the group cancelled their highly anticipated comeback tour days before it was slated to start, citing a "deep rift within the band" over "creative differences". Following the tour cancellation, the Jonas Brothers Twitter page went offline and the brothers' individual accounts became temporarily obsolete; causing several media outlets to report that a break-up was imminent. However, on October 23, 2013, Joe and Nick tweeted that they were "getting [ther] shit together" and asked fans to "bear with [them]". On 29 October 2013, the Jonas Brothers officially confirmed their split.
On March 18, 2013, it was revealed that Nick would star in the thriller film Careful What You Wish For, which is set to release in 2014.
On February 4, 2014, it was announced that he would be working as the musical and creative director for the tour. In an interview with Rolling Stones, Nick stated "I'm overseeing video content, wardrobe, lighting and staging, and then I'm extending into the musical side of things, which includes creating the arrangements for the songs. I'm building what Demi wanted, which is a show without stops and starts. Demi and I have the same manager, so I was immediately excited when I was offered the position. The relationship that Demi and I had over eight years really gives me the insight into how to best communicate with her and her team."I've been in rehearsals with the band for the last two weeks. The biggest challenge has been just trying to rethink some of the music and see how we could compliment it with lights and video. I sat down with the band and said to them, 'You need to step into this like it's a new gig. None of these arrangements are going to sound like the originals, so you need to have an open mind.'"
He joined Demi Lovato on stage during select dates of the Neon Lights Tour and performed the songs "Stop the World", "Here We Go Again" and "Catch Me" with her.
During the same interview with Rolling Stone he also said that once the tour gets off the ground, he will turn his attention towards his upcoming solo project. "Some of it is done and ready to be released," he says. "I've got a lot of things in the pipeline right now and I'm waiting to release some news about my music and my next steps. It isn't quite locked in yet, but I have started making some music and now it's all about lining up the pieces."
On February 18, it was announced that Nick would play the role of Nate Henderson in the new drama series Navy St. On March 13 he announced that he was filming a second episode of Hawaii Five-0. On June 23, it was announced that the series Navy St. had been renamed Kingdom. On June 25, 2014, Nick posted a snippet of a possible new song on Instagram. On June 28, 2014, he shot a music video for an upcoming single. On July 24, Jonas released the single, entitled "Chains", to the internet without any true promotion. The song was released to iTunes, and its video premiered on MTV on July 30, 2014, via Jonas' new label Island Records. In August he announced that his upcoming will be self-titled and will be released in late October or early November. He also revealed that the second single "Jealous" would be released on September 7. During the fashion week in New York he announced that he's signed by Wilhelmina Models. On October 8, 2014, Kingdom premiered on DirectTV's Audience Network, and was renewed for two more seasons two weeks later.
In 2015 he will appear as a guest mentor for Christina Aguilera's team on The Voice Season 8 during The Battle Rounds. On January 26, 2015 it was announced that he will recur on Scream Queens.
Jonas was diagnosed with Type I diabetes at the age of thirteen and uses an insulin pump to help him manage his condition. He has developed the Change for the Children Foundation. Partnering with five different charities, their goal is to raise money and awareness for diabetes. He also developed a public service announcement with the Washington Nationals to support diabetes care at Children's National Medical Center in Washington, D.C.
Singer and actress Miley Cyrus has stated that she dated Jonas from June 2006 to December 2007. Cyrus claimed they were "in love" and began dating soon after they first met. The song "Wedding Bells" by the Jonas Brothers was written by Nick. It was rumored that the song was based on his past relationship with Cyrus who, at the time of the song's release, was engaged to Liam Hemsworth. In 2009 Nick Jonas briefly dated fellow Disney star Selena Gomez after she appeared in the music video for the song "Burnin' Up" (performed by Jonas' band Jonas Brothers). Jonas dated Australian actress and singer Delta Goodrem in May 2011. They broke up in February 2012; Goodrem has said that it was a genuine love. As of August 2013 he is dating Miss Universe Olivia Culpo, whom he met at the 2013 Miss USA competition.
Since August 6, 2008, Bayer Diabetes Care has partnered with Jonas as a diabetes ambassador to promote the idea for young people to manage their diabetes. Jonas testified in the U.S. Senate to promote more research funding for the condition. In 2010, Nick further volunteered his efforts for Do Something by offering his time as a prize to teens who donated jeans to Do Something and Aeropostale's "Teens for Jeans" campaign. Further, Nick filmed another PSA, this one in support of Do Something's "Battle of the Bands" campaign, for the advancement of music education in schools. Nick is also is a member of the National Youth Leadership Committee for the Ronald Reagan Centennial Celebration, along with Jordin Sparks, Genevieve Ryan, and Brodi Conover.
In January 2010, Nick Jonas & The Administration began touring in support of their debut album, Who I Am. Apart from guest appearances at specific events, it marks the first time Nick has toured without his brothers, Kevin and Joe. In September 2011 and October 2011, Nick Jonas & The Administration began touring through South America in support of their debut album, Who I Am.
