Selena Marie Gomez (born July 22, 1992) is an American actress and singer. Born and raised in Grand Prairie, Texas, she was first featured on the children's series Barney & Friends in the early 2000s. In 2007, Gomez came to prominence after being cast in the Disney Channel television series Wizards of Waverly Place. She portrayed the starring character Alex Russo until its conclusion in 2012. She formed her band Selena Gomez & the Scene after signing a recording contract with Hollywood Records in 2008; they released the studio albums Kiss & Tell (2009), A Year Without Rain (2010), and When the Sun Goes Down (2011) before beginning a hiatus in 2012.
Gomez entered the film industry with star billings in feature films including Ramona and Beezus (2010), Monte Carlo (2011), and Hotel Transylvania (2012). She embraced an increasingly mature public image with her star billing in the controversial film Spring Breakers (2013) and her debut solo studio album Stars Dance (2013). The latter project debuted at number one on the U.S. Billboard 200 and spawned the Billboard Hot 100 top-ten single "Come & Get It". Gomez was released from her recording contract with Hollywood Records following the completion of her greatest hits album For You (2014). She subsequently signed with Interscope Records to continue work on her second studio album.
Beyond entertainment, Gomez has ventured into other endeavors. She has worked with numerous organizations for charitable causes, and has most notably worked with UNICEF for several years. She formed her own production company, July Moon Productions, in 2008. In Fall of 2010, Gomez launched her clothing line "Dream Out Loud" through Kmart; the brand features all material that was made from eco-friendly or recycled material. In 2011, she released a self-titled perfume. Since beginning her music career, Gomez has sold an estimated 2.8 million albums and 18.1 million singles.


Selena Marie Gomez was born in Grand Prairie, Texas on July 22, 1992, to Ricardo Joel Gomez and former stage actress Amanda Dawn "Mandy" Cornett. Gomez was named after Tejano singer Selena. Her father is of Mexican descent while her mother, who was adopted, has some Italian ancestry. Regarding her Hispanic heritage, Gomez has stated, "My family does have Quinceañeras, and we go to the communion church. We do everything that's Catholic, but we don't really have anything traditional except [that we] go to the park and have barbecues on Sundays after church." Gomez's parents divorced when she was only five, with Gomez staying with her mother. Gomez has two siblings. Her sister, Gracie Elliot Teefey, was born to Amanda and her second husband Brian Teefey on June 12, 2013. Gomez has a second sister, Victoria Gomez, born to Ricardo and his wife Sara on June 25, 2014. She earned a high school diploma through homeschooling in May 2010.
When Gomez was born, her mother was sixteen years old. The family had financial troubles during Gomez's childhood, with her mother struggling to provide for the pair. At one point, Gomez recalled the pair had to search for quarters just to get gas for their car. Her mother later recalled the two would frequently walk to their local dollar store to purchase spaghetti for dinner, though got by. Gomez stated "I was frustrated that my parents weren't together, and never saw the light at the end of the tunnel where my mom was working hard to provide a better life for me. I'm terrified of what I would have become if I'd stayed [in Texas]." She later added "I remember having a lot of macaroni and cheese but my mom never made it seem like it was a big deal. She was really strong around me. Having me at 16 had to have been a big responsibility. My mom gave up everything for me, had three jobs, supported me sacrificed her life for me." Gomez had a close relationship with her grandparents as a child, and appeared in various pageants growing up. Her grandparents often took care of Selena while her parents finished their schooling, and the pair went as far as stating that they "raised her" up until she found success in the entertainment industry.
She first gained an interest in pursuing a career in the entertainment industry watching her mother prepare for stage productions. She began auditioning for various roles, meeting Demi Lovato during an audition for Barney and Friends. Both girls were later selected to appear on the series in 2002, with Gomez portraying the character Gianna. The show was her first experience in acting, with Gomez recalling "I was very shy when I was little [...] I didn't know what 'camera right' was. I didn't know what blocking was. I learned everything from Barney." Gomez appeared in fourteen episodes of the show throughout 2002 to 2004, though was let go by the show's producers as she was getting "too old" for the series. While working on the series, Gomez had a cameo role in the film Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over (2003) and the made-for-television film Walker, Texas Ranger: Trial by Fire (2005).
With experience now under her belt, Gomez auditioned for roles under the Disney channel company along with Lovato. Gomez made a guest appearance in a 2006 episode of the Disney series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody. The following year, Gomez was given a recurring role on the Disney series Hannah Montana; she made three appearances on the series spanning two seasons. During this time, Gomez filmed pilot episodes for two potential Disney Channel series; the first, titled Arwin!, was a spin-off to the Suite Life series, while the second was a spin-off to the series Lizzie McGuire. She later auditioned for a role in the Disney series Wizards of Waverly Place, ultimately landing the lead role of Alex Russo. Upon receiving the role, Gomez and her mother moved to Hollywood; Lovato and her family also moved with the pair, hoping to achieve similar success to Gomez. Wizards of Waverly Place saw Gomez portraying a teenage girl in a family of wizards who own a restaurant in New York. The series quickly became a hit for the network, propelling Gomez to more mainstream success. The series received numerous awards and nominations. Gomez recorded the theme song for the series, titled "Everything is Not What It Seems".
With Gomez achieving mainstream success, the media began to compare her to fellow Disney star Miley Cyrus; both had a hit series on the network. Various bloggers and sites began to depict the two as rivals, with rumors of a feud between the two continuing for multiple years. Despite this, both parties denied that there was any drama between the two. Following Demi Lovato's rise to fame through the Disney channel shortly afterwards, the three became referred to as the "Disney girls" and their careers were frequently compared to one another. Forbes magazine later listed Gomez as one of the "Eight Hot Kid Stars to Watch" in 2008. Further attention was drawn to Gomez when it was reported that she was in a relationship with fellow Disney star Nick Jonas. Gomez later appeared in the music video for the song "Burnin' Up" by the Jonas Brothers. This further fueled rumors of a feud between Gomez and Cyrus, as Nick and Cyrus had previously been a couple. She later appeared in an episode of the reality series Jonas Brothers: Living the Dream.
While working on the second season of Wizards of Waverly Place, Gomez appeared on the Disney channel special Studio DC: Almost Live alongside various other Disney stars. She contributed a cover of the song "Cruella de Vil" to the compilation album DisneyMania 6, and later recorded the original song "Fly to Your Heart" for the soundtrack of the animated film Tinker Bell. She had a leading role in the musical film Another Cinderella Story that same year, portraying an aspiring dancer. The film was released to generally positive reviews, and won the 2010 Writers Guild of America Award for Children's script-long form or special. Gomez recorded three songs for the soundtrack, and released the song "Tell Me Something I Don't Know" as a promotional single. Later that year, Gomez had the supporting role of Helga in the animated film Horton Hears a Who!. The film was a commercial success, and went on to gross nearly three hundred million dollars worldwide. She was signed a recording contract with Hollywood Records, who had already signed both Cyrus and Lovato.
Gomez launched her own production company, July Moon Productions. She partnered with XYZ Films for the project, giving Gomez the opportunity to option articles, hire writers and create talent packages to shop to studios. Gomez was slated to release two films under the company. The first, known as What Boys Want, saw Gomez portray a girl who could hear the thought of men. She later announced the film Thirteen Reasons Why, which saw Gomez portray a young girl who commits suicide; ultimately, neither film was released.
Gomez continued to have mainstream success throughout the following year, appearing as Alex Russo in a crossover episode of the Disney series The Suite Life on Deck. She later made a guest appearance on the Disney series Sonny With a Chance, starring Lovato. She appeared in a remix of the Forever the Sickest Kids' single "Whoa Oh! (Me vs. Everyone)", released as a single in April of that year. The song peaked at number 78 on the Pop 100 chart in the United States. Gomez, along with Lovato, starred in the Disney Channel film Princess Protection Program, which aired in June 2009. The film was a critical success, and had a total of 8.5 million viewers during its premiere. For the film, Gomez and Lovato recorded the song "One and the Same", which was later released as a promotional single. She later provided the voice of Princess Selenia in the animated film Arthur and the Revenge of Maltazard. On August 28, 2009, Gomez starred in Wizards of Waverly Place: The Movie, a television film based on the series. The film premiered to an audience of 11.4 million viewers becoming cable's No. 1 scripted telecast of 2009 and Disney Channel's second most-viewed film premiere after High School Musical 2. The film won the series its second consecutive Emmy for "Outstanding Children's Program" at the 62nd Primetime Emmy Awards.
Hoping to achieve a successful crossover into music, Gomez formed the pop-rock band Selena Gomez & the Scene through her record deal with Hollywood Records. The group released their debut studio album in August 2009 which went on to receive a Gold certification from the RIAA. It spawned the widely successful single "Naturally", which helped Gomez achieve mainstream music success. During this time, Gomez and Jonas ended their romantic relationship. She was later linked to actor Taylor Lautner for several months, though the two split. Following her split with Lautner, Gomez rekindled her relationship with Jonas; the two split again months later. Gomez was part of Sears' back-to-school fashion ad campaign. As part of the campaign Gomez was featured in the television commercials. In August 2009, Gomez also hosted the "Sears Arrive Air Band Casting Call" – to select five people for the first-ever "Sears Air Band", which performed at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards. Gomez was a spokesperson for Borden Milk, and was featured in the campaign's print and television ads. She was also a spokesperson for State Farm Insurance and appeared in numerous television commercials, which air on the Disney Channel, to raise awareness of being a safe driver.
In 2009, Gomez signed on to star as one of the two female leads in Ramona and Beezus, a film adaption of the children's novel series by Beverly Cleary. Gomez stated that she felt no pressure in taking more adult roles, saying "I think I'm fully aware of my audience and I'm still just a kid myself. I wouldn't do a role I don't feel comfortable doing or that my audience wouldn't feel comfortable seeing." The film premiered on July 23, 2010 and was met with generally positive reviews. Gomez's band released their second studio album that same year, achieving further success and becoming their second album to be certified by the RIAA.
After having previously announced plans to launch a fashion line, Gomez launched "Dream out Loud by Selena Gomez" in 2010. The collection consisted of and featured bohemian dresses, floral tops, jeans, skirts, jackets, scarves and hats, all made from recycled or eco-friendly materials. Gomez said that the line reflected her own personal style and described the clothing as being "pretty, feminine, and bohemian". She was later quoted as saying, "With my line, I really want to give the customer options on how they can put their own looks together [...] I want the pieces that can be easy to dress up or down, and the fabrics being eco-friendly and organic is super important [...] Also, the tags will all have some of my inspirational quotes on them. I'm just looking to send a good message." Gomez teamed up with designers Tony Melillo and Sandra Campos, both who have worked with big-name fashion houses. Gomez said of the partnering, "When I met Tony and Sandra, I was instantly comfortable with them and now they are just like family to me ... They are so creative and I love how I can just call them up whenever and talk to them about everything, even if it's just about changing a button ... They've been so cool about everything." The brand was manufactured by, Melillo and Campos teamed with New York-based Adjmi Apparel and formed by Adjmi CH Brands LLC, the holding company for the brand.
On February 27, 2011, Gomez attended the 2011 Vanity Fair Oscar party with Canadian singer Justin Bieber, confirming several months of media speculation about a romantic relationship between the pair. The couple quickly gained much media attention, and were labeled "Jelena" by online sites. Gomez appeared in the film Monte Carlo that same year, starring as a girl who's "mistaken for a socialite while on a trip to Paris." To prepare for the role, Gomez learned how to play polo and also took two weeks of vocal training to learn two different British accents. Gomez appeared in a cameo role for the film The Muppets, and appeared in the Disney series' So Random! and PrankStars. Selena Gomez & the Scene released their third and final studio album that same year, with the album's second single receiving a 4x Platinum certification from the RIAA. It was announced on July 14, 2011, that Gomez had signed a license agreement with Adrenalina, an extreme sports and adventure-themed lifestyle brand, to develop, manufacture, and distribute the actress' fragrance. Chairman and C.E.O. of Adrenalina, Ilia Lekach, said, "We are incredibly enthused to be working with Ms. Gomez and will reveal more details pertaining to the fragrance as we get closer to the launch date." Gomez later released the self-titled perfume.
Gomez confirmed in January 2012 that she would be taking a musical hiatus, opting rather to focus on her acting career. That year, Wizards of Waverly Place officially ended its run on the Disney channel after four successful seasons. She appeared in Hotel Transylvania, an animated film, voicing the character of Mavis, alongside Adam Sandler and Steve Buscemi. The film premiered at the 37th annual Toronto International Film Festival and was released on September 21, 2012. Gomez had a role in the controversial Harmony Korine film Spring Breakers, alongside James Franco. The film saw Gomez in a more mature role than her previous works, and reportedly led to Gomez having a "bit of a meltdown on set". In early November 2012, it was widely reported that Gomez and Bieber had ended their relationship after approximately two years together. They reconciled later that month.
Despite her earlier statements that she would be focusing on her acting career, Gomez confirmed that she was working on her debut solo studio album. The album's lead single, "Come & Get It", went on to become Gomez's biggest hit to date. It became her first top ten hit in the United States, and her most successful song on pop radio. Her debut album, Stars Dance, was released on July 23, 2013. It became her first album to top the Billboard 200, and gave Gomez the highest first week sales of her career. The album's second single, "Slow Down", failed to match the success of its predecessor. Gomez embarked on her Stars Dance Tour throughout 2013, which went on to have several sold out dates and become a financial success. Gomez filmed a cameo appearance in the film Aftershock, and had a role in the film Getaway. She also starred in the Disney channel special The Wizards Return: Alex vs. Alex that year. Gomez initially stated she hoped to take a second musical hiatus following the tour, though she later opted to focus on both music and acting.
Gomez canceled the Australian and Asian leg of her Stars Dance Tour in December 2013, stating that she would be taking a hiatus to spend time with her family. The following month, Gomez spent two weeks at Dawn at The Meadows, a treatment center in Wickenburg, Arizona that specializes in treating addiction and trauma in young people. Her representative stated that she had spent time there "voluntarily [...] but not for substance abuse." It was later speculated that her on-again-off-again relationship with Bieber had led to her stint in rehab. In April of that year, it was confirmed that Gomez had fired her mother and stepfather as her managers; the two had managed Gomez since her career began. It was confirmed that the decision was purely business based and that there was no strain in their relationship. It was also confirmed that the decision had nothing to do with Gomez's mother's disapproval of her relationship with Bieber. Gomez later signed with the WME and Brillstein companies to manage her career. The news of Gomez's new management also fueled rumors that her recording contract with Hollywood Records was ending, and that Gomez was searching for a new label. It was confirmed in September that Gomez had signed a new contract with Interscope and had begun working on her second studio album. Gomez released a compilation album, For You, to finalize her deal with Hollywood Records.
Gomez starred in the film adaption of the Ric Browde novel While I'm Dead... Feed the Dog opposite Dylan McDermott and Nat Wolff. Titled Behaving Badly, the film received a negative critical and commercial reception. She later appeared in the film Rudderless, the directorial debut of William H. Macy. Gomez recorded a song for the soundtrack of the film, and received praise from the film's director. The independent film received a mixed reception from critics.
She is currently working with Zedd, Dreamlab and the LA-based producer Ruffian on her second studio album.
Gomez names Bruno Mars as her major musical influence and idol, saying she is influenced in everything he does from "his style of music, his style in general, the way he performs, the way he carries himself." Gomez also cites Beyoncé and Rihanna as influences. Gomez's debut solo album Stars Dance (2013) was prominently influenced by singers Britney Spears, Taylor Swift and Skrillex. She has a net worth of $16 million.
Gomez was involved in the UR Votes Count campaign which encouraged teenagers to learn more about 2008 presidential candidates Barack Obama and John McCain. In October 2008, Gomez participated in St. Jude's Children's Hospital "Runway For Life" benefit. That same month, Gomez was named UNICEF's spokesperson for the Trick-or-Treat for UNICEF campaign, which encouraged children to raise money on Halloween to help children around the world. She said that she was "extremely excited" to "encourage other kids to make a difference in the world." In August 2009, a 17-year-old Gomez became the youngest UNICEF ambassador ever, passing fellow songstress Hayley Westenra, who was 18 when she was chosen. In her first official field mission, Gomez traveled to Ghana on September 4, 2009 for a week to witness first-hand the stark conditions of vulnerable children that lack vital necessities including clean water, nourishment, education and healthcare. Gomez explained during an interview with Associated Press that she wanted to use her star power to bring awareness to Ghana: "That's why I feel very honored to have a voice that kids listen to and take into consideration [...] I had people on my tour asking me where IS Ghana, and they Googled it [...] and because I went there, they now know where Ghana is. So it's pretty incredible." Gomez said of her role as ambassador that: "Every day 25,000 children die from preventable causes. I stand with UNICEF in the belief that we can change that number from 25,000 to zero. I know we can achieve this because every moment, UNICEF is on the ground providing children with the lifesaving assistance needed to ensure zero becomes a reality."
She is the ambassador of DoSomething.org after being involved with the charity Island Dog, which helps dogs in Puerto Rico. She got involved while filming Wizards of Waverly Place: The Movie in Puerto Rico. Gomez is also involved with the charity RAISE Hope For Congo, an initiative of the Enough Project, which helps raise awareness about conflict minerals and violence against Congolese women. Gomez was named spokesperson for UNICEF's 2009 Trick-or-Treat campaign, for the second year in a row. Gomez, who raised over $700,000 for the charity in 2008, stated that she hopes to be able to raise 1 million dollars in 2009. Gomez participated in a celebrity auction and hosted a live web cast series on Facebook in support of the Trick-or-Treat for UNICEF campaign. From 2009 to 2012, Gomez was involved in Disney's Friends for Change, an organization which promotes "environmentally-friendly behavior", and appeared in its public service announcements. Gomez, Demi Lovato, Miley Cyrus, and the Jonas Brothers recorded "Send It On", a charity single with all of its proceeds to the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund. It debuted on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 20. Also in 2009, Gomez made a surprise visit to a Los Angeles elementary school as part of the "A Day Made Better" program that was sponsored by OfficeMax. During her visit, Gomez gave the school an award and $1,000 worth of school supplies, and talked to students about the importance of giving back to the community. On January 22, 2010, Gomez participated in the Hope for Haiti Now Telethon with a number of other celebrities.
Gomez returned as the UNICEF spokesperson for the 60th anniversary of Trick-or-Treat for UNICEF campaign in 2010. In celebration of the 60th anniversary, Gomez and her band, The Scene, held a benefit concert donating all proceeds to the campaign. In February 2011, Gomez traveled to Chile to witness and meet with the families of UNICEF's supported program, "Programa Puente" which helps families better understand and develops skills to deal effectively with early childhood education, development and other issues related to raising children. From her field trip experience, Gomez said "UNICEF is helping Chilean families get out of poverty, prevent violence within the home and promote education. To witness first hand these families' struggles, and also their hope and perseverance, was truly inspiring." In March 2011, Gomez participated in the UNICEF Tap Project's "Celebrity Tap Pack" limited-edition, custom-made water bottles featuring tap water from the homes of each celebrity advocate, in order to raise funds and increase profile for the clean water and sanitation programs. She is also featured in videos promoting the campaign. In April 2012, Gomez was named ambassador to the Ryan Seacrest Foundation. It was announced on July 30, 2012, that Gomez would partner with Case-Mate as part of its upcoming "Right Case, Right Occasion" marketing campaign. She will be teaming up with Fergie and Common to create fashionable custom phone cases for a good cause.
Gomez was the lead singer of the band, Selena Gomez & the Scene, releasing three studio albums and one remix album. She has released one studio album, one EP and one compilation album in her solo career.
