Official Website
Selena Marie Gomez (born on July 22, 1982) is an American actress, musician, dancer, singer, songwriter and recording artist.


Gomez was born in Grand Prairie, Texas to parents Mandy Cornett and Ricardo Joel Gomez. She was born to an Italian-American mother and a Mexican-American father, who had eventually got a divorce then after and Selena's mother Mandy then remarried when Selena was around 14 years old. Gomez was actually named after American Tejano pop singer Selena. Gomez had also said that her namesake Selena has always meant a lot to her and her whole family. Selena is also a Roman Catholic. Her younger maternal half-sister Scarlett Teefey died on December 16, 2011 due to complications following a premature birth by her mother, and while her second younger half-sister, Gracie Elliott Teefey, was then born during around within the summer of 2013, by around the same period of time when she went out on a live tour. Gomez is also perhaps most notable and best known for dating Justin Bieber.
After being romantically linked to Nick Jonas, Selena has also entered into a very high-profile relationship with fellow tween sensation Justin Bieber in 2011. The tween couple had dated for over 2 years, and despite having a few reunions and celebrity duets in 2013, they remain currently broken up.
Gomez had first appeared and guest starred on The Suite Life of Zack and Cody and Hannah Montana which have aired on the Disney Channel. She is also perhaps most notable and best known for playing Alex Russo on the Disney Channel series The Wizards of Waverly Place. Gomez has also starred in the Disney television movies Another Cinderella Story and Princess Protection Program. She also did voiceover work in Horton Hears a Who! and Hotel Transylvania.
Gomez was also ranked as seventh on Forbes' list of Breakout Stars of 2008. Her first 4 solo singing albums include Kiss and Tell (2009), A Year Without Rain (2010), When The Sun Goes Down (2011) and Stars Dance (2013). In November 2014, Gomez is releasing her new singing album For You, which will compile and include mostly about and over several of all of her newest singing and greatest song hits like Love You Like a Love Song and Round and Round.
Selena Gomez seen present while during the making of Monte Carlo in June 2010
