Ebba Tove Elsa Nilsson (born 29 October 1987), better known by her stage name Tove Lo (Swedish pronunciation: [ˈtuːvɛ luː] or pronounced "tow və - loh"), is a Swedish singer and songwriter from Stockholm, Sweden. She gained attention for her 2013 single "Habits", and later mainstream success with a remix of the track by hip hop producers Hippie Sabotage titled "Stay High".
Her debut EP, Truth Serum, was released in March 2014 featuring both versions of the song as well as singles "Out of Mind" and "Not on Drugs". Tove Lo's debut album, Queen of the Clouds, was released on September 30 in the U.S. as well as parts of Europe, Asia and Oceania through Island Records. Tove Lo has also written songs for a number of artists, including The Saturdays, Icona Pop, Girls Aloud, and Cher Lloyd among others.


Nilsson was born in Stockholm, Sweden. As a young girl, she started writing poetry and short stories, and later on she studied at Rytmus Musikergymnasiet, a music school.
Before the explosion of "Habits (Stay High)" and before releasing Queen of the Clouds, Tove Lo worked as a songwriter for artists such as Icona Pop and Girls Aloud. Tove Lo met Caroline Hjelt (of Icona Pop) back in the days of high school, while attending a prestigious music academy in Sweden. They jammed together in a band as freshmen, and have been close friends ever since. After high school, Tove Lo continued to write music for other artists until she decided to try her luck at performing her own songs. She later was found intoxicated and unconscious on the side of a major high way in Stockholm. It was there they discovered her dark past with alcohol dependence as well as other major hallucinogenic drug abuse. She was later taken to rehab in late 2011 and was pronounced "cured" several months later in 2012. She has remained sober until the video shoot of "Habits". It was there the video producer asked her to drink and smoke to give the video "authenticity".
Tove Lo's debut single, "Love Ballad", was released in the autumn of 2012. Her second single, "Habits" was released in March 2013 on her SoundCloud page and through iTunes, although later being removed from the store. Tove Lo received much attention from "Habits", including recognition from artists such as Marina and the Diamonds. In June 2013, Tove Lo featured on Lucas Nord's single "Run on Love", and later in the year, on Seven Lions and Myon & Shane 54's collaborative single, "Strangers", which was released on 11 October 2013 and reached number 1 on SiriusXM BPM 51. Her third single, "Out of Mind", was released on 16 October 2013. On 6 December 2013, "Habits" was re-released under the title "Habits (Stay High)" on the iTunes store due to the popularity of a remix of the song titled "Stay High". The song has peaked in the top ten in countries all over the world; including Denmark, and reached number 3 on the Billboard Hot 100. Tove Lo appeared on the SVT Swedish television game show På spåret on 24 January 2014 performing covers of "Fidelity", from Regina Spektor, and "Peace", from Mika. She released her debut EP, Truth Serum, on 3 March 2014. The album peaked at number twenty on the Swedish Albums Chart. She released the "Habits" remix, "Stay High", on the same day as the EP. "Stay High" peaked at number thirteen on the Swedish Singles Chart. However, the single was hugely successful elsewhere, peaking within the top ten of the charts in Australia, Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands, France, New Zealand, Norway and the United Kingdom as well as peaking in the top twenty of the charts in the Czech Republic and the United States. Tove Lo played her first U.S. show on 10 March 2014 at the Shameless SXSW Party and her first U.K. show at The Nottinghill Arts Club, London on 2 April 2014.
On 19 August 2014, Tove Lo announced through an interview with Rolling Stone that her debut album, titled Queen of the Clouds, would be released 30 September in the U.S. with a 2015 release date for the U.K., also revealing the album's artwork and track listing. The album features the singles "Habits" and "Not on Drugs", as well as a new version of her collaborative single with Swedish DJ Lucas Nord, "Run on Love". The album's twelve tracks are equally separated into three sections of four, titled "The Sex", "The Love" and "The Pain", reflecting the themes of the songs.
In November, the original soundtrack of The Hunger Games: Mockingjay, Part 1 film was released and Tove Lo is featured on the song "Scream My Name".
Tove Lo opened alongside Betty Who for Katy Perry in the third leg of her Prismatic World Tour. On 16 December 2014, Lo announced on her Twitter page that doctors had found cysts on her vocal chords and that surgery was required immediately. As a result, she cancelled all shows for the following two months. However, Lo later announced that she would complete her two remaining scheduled opening performances for Perry's Auckland shows and plans to subsequently return home to undergo the surgery.
In early 2015, it was announced that Tove Lo would perform at the Boston Calling Music Festival in May 2015.
Lo said that she "found her sound" by listening to Charlotte Gainsbourg, Robyn, and Lykke Li.
