Keenon Daequan Ray Jackson (born March 9, 1990), better known by his stage name YG (Young Gangsta), is an American rapper from Compton, California. In 2009, he released his debut single, "Toot It and Boot It", featuring Ty Dolla Sign, which peaked at number 67 on the Billboard Hot 100. The single's success resulted in him signing to Def Jam Recordings. In the following years, YG released mixtapes such as The Real 4Fingaz and Just Re'd Up 2 among others.
In June 2013, YG signed to Young Jeezy's CTE World. His 2013 single "My Nigga" featuring Jeezy and Rich Homie Quan has peaked at number 19 on the US Billboard Hot 100, becoming the highest charting song of his career. He then released the singles "Left, Right" and "Who Do You Love?" featuring Drake leading up to the release of his debut studio album. His debut album, My Krazy Life was released on March 18, 2014, by Pu$haz Ink, CTE World and Def Jam and received critical acclaim.


YG was born in Compton, California. He created the Pu$haz Ink record label and group with DJ Mustard in 2008. After releasing several songs that garnered him a large following on the internet, such as "She A Model" and "Aim Me" YG signed to Def Jam in 2009. According to Max Gousse, the senior VP of A&R at Island/Def Jam who inked the rapper, the signing stemmed from a newfound emphasis on West Coast artists by label president/CEO L.A. Reid, as well as, of course, Y.G.’s skills and stage presence. However, just as he was getting his buzz up in mid-2009, he was arrested on a parole violation, stemming from a previous charge of residential burglary. Following that, he worked on mixtapes, touring and running his 4Hunnid brand clothing line. "Toot It and Boot It" featuring LA-based singer Ty Dolla Sign was released in 2010, and became both of their breakout hit. He was also featured in XXL's 2011 Freshmen Class. Beginning with YG's mixtape The Real 4 Fingaz, DJ Mustard begun significantly producing on YG's projects. Their work together resulted in songs such as "I'm Good", "Bitches Ain't Shit" featuring Tyga and Nipsey Hussle and "You Broke" again featuring Nipsey Hussle. The singles were met with moderate success, but not near as much as his debut single.
In 2012, he announced his debut album, then titled I'm 4rm Bompton, would be executively produced by rapper Young Jeezy. Later in June 2013, he revealed that Jeezy's record label CTE World would release the album. He was then featured on Yo Gotti's "Act Right" also featuring Jeezy. It would peak at number 100 on the Billboard Hot 100. He was then prominently featured on the CTE World mixtape, Boss Yo Life Up Gang in August 2013.
On September 4, 2013, YG revealed that his debut album would be released on November 19, 2013 via Def Jam Recordings and that he has changed the album title to My Krazy Life. He also revealed that Drake would be featured on a song titled "Who You Love", produced by DJ Mustard. Shortly thereafter he released the album's lead single "My Nigga" featuring Rich Homie Quan and Jeezy, also produced by DJ Mustard. The song has since peaked at number 19 on the US Billboard Hot 100. On December 10, 2013, YG released the DJ Mustard-produced "Left, Right" as the album's second single. The following day, Def Jam announced that My Krazy Life would be released on March 18, 2014 and that "Who Do You Love?" featuring Drake would be the album's next single. On February 18, 2014, YG revealed the cover artwork for his debut album My Krazy Life. The artwork features YG posing for a mugshot, with his name and album title detailed in the placard around his neck.
YG is a member of the Compton-based Westside Tree Top Piru Bloods gang. On January 25, 2012, shots were fired during the filming of YG's music video "I'm a Thug". The police shut down and closed the set.
YG came up with the idea for Pu$haz Ink in September 2008 with friends Ace and PC. He later officially co-founded the record label with DJ Mustard. Originally the "label" was used as a promotional tool and a brand for YG and DJ Mustard's group of rap collaborators they had grown up with. Then as YG, Ty Dolla Sign and DJ Mustard grew in popularity, they decided to officially form a record label for Pushaz Ink, including rappers RJ, Reem Riches, Tee Cee, and Slim 400.
